imagine the damage a domestic cat can do
when it scratches and you'll understand
why this is the most dangerous part of
the operation in its semi dazed state
Aaron lifts the back legs forcing the
cap to cling on with its front paws and
so unable to attack this is the most
bizarre capture none will have ever been
through
slack
you
got it
okay keep going keep going I've got cat
this cat is 18 months old when it's
fully grown it will be the same size as
a leopard mountain lions usually kill by
leaping onto the back of their prey a
single bite is then usually enough to
break the neck and bring the victim down
attacks on humans average 14 a year in
the United States when they do attack
it's usually small children or adults
walking alone in the wilderness anything
that looks like an easy target Cathy
gives the second injection of Rompin to
firmly sedate the animal the reason we
have to keep our voices down is because
I can't although it's heavily sedated it
can still respond to stimulus if we're
very noisy around it so we're just
trying to keep it as quiet as possible
so doesn't kind of wake up she's a big
boy yesterday there you go that one
we're putting the lubricant in her eyes
because in under this anesthesia her
eyes will stay open so he's mainly for
protection and to keep them nice and
moist perfect the hood will help to
protect the ice and reduce light
stimulus we take blood samples that will
be used for DNA testing to tell us which
cats are related to which do you hold a
little egg for me great yeah nice at me
this anesthetic suppresses the body's
ability to self-regulate I'll give you
ten seconds
cartridges hundred and twenty great and
while monitoring the vital signs we
sponsor problem right she's a hundred
and four point eight actually oh that
that's too high yeah let's uh let's get
some snow gets infected we play snow on
the inner thigh where the skin is thin
and the veins run close to the surface
this is the most efficient way to cool
the animal down the temperature is high
because the cap has had a run and
probably is a bit stressed and then the
anesthetic so I'm we're just gonna pack
with snow cooler off temperature should
be around about 102 is that about right
a hundred and a half 202 we can tell the
cats age by its teeth the canines came
through about eight months and are
permanent the rest are deciduous and
will be replaced at just under two years
of age the radio call will stay on for
about a year and will enable Tony to
track its every move
although it looks like it's fully come
round already it's just responding to
the air to the stimulus of being moved
so I'm going to back out and make Kathy
come in and and reverse the an ascetic
with an injection per line of sailors
used are in scope within three minutes
the cat is awake and on its way